modules/nf-core/deepvariant/README.md, before:

# DeepVariant module / subworkflow options

The DeepVariant tool can be run using the `deepvariant/rundeepvariant` subcommand, or the subworkflow `deepvariant`, which calls the subcommands `makeexamples`, `callvariants` and `postprocessvariants`. The subcommand `rundeepvariant` is simpler, but the subworkflow may be useful if you want to run `callvariants` on GPU.

# Conda is not supported at the moment

The [bioconda](https://bioconda.github.io/recipes/deepvariant/README.html) recipe is not fully working as expected.

See https://github.com/bioconda/bioconda-recipes/issues/30310 and https://github.com/nf-core/modules/issues/1754 for more information.

Hence, we are using the docker container provided by the authors of the tool:

- [google/deepvariant](https://hub.docker.com/r/google/deepvariant)

This image is mirrored on the [nf-core quay.io](https://quay.io/repository/nf-core/deepvariant) for convenience.

# DeepVariant subworkflow

You can use the subworkflow `nf-core/deepvariant`, which integrates the three
processes to perform variant calling with common file formats.

These module subcommands incorporate the individual steps of the DeepVariant pipeline:

    * makeexamples: Converts the input alignment file to a tfrecord format suitable for the deep learning model
    * callvariants: Call variants based on input tfrecords. The output is also in
    tfrecord format, and needs postprocessing to convert it to vcf.
    * postprocessvariants: Convert variant calls from callvariants to VCF, and
    also create GVCF files based on genomic information from makeexamples.

# Recommended parameters

## makeexamples

This process imports the data used for calling, and thus decides what information is available to the
deep neural network. It's important to import the correct channels for the model you want to use.

The script `run_deepvariant` (not used in the subworkflow) does this automatically. You can refer to
the implementation in the DeepVariant repo:

https://github.com/google/deepvariant/blob/bf9ed7e6de97cf6c8381694cb996317a740625ad/scripts/run_deepvariant.py#L367

For WGS and WES models you need to enable the `insert_size` channel. Specify the following in the config:

```
withName: "DEEPVARIANT_MAKEEXAMPLES" {
    ext.args = '--channels "insert_size"'
}
```

## callvariants

It is mandatory to specify a model type. The models are available on the container filesystem in
`/opt/models` - specify the one you want with the `--checkpoint` argument.

```
withName: "DEEPVARIANT_CALLVARIANTS" {
    ext.args = '--checkpoint "/opt/models/wgs'
}
```

The channels specified in the `makeexamples` process must match the model used for calling.

Commit message:

Update modules and subworkflows to compatibility with 1.8.0

modules/nf-core/deepvariant/README.md, after:

# DeepVariant module / subworkflow options

The DeepVariant tool can be run using the `deepvariant/rundeepvariant` subcommand, or the subworkflow `deepvariant`, which calls the subcommands `makeexamples`, `callvariants` and `postprocessvariants`. The subcommand `rundeepvariant` is simpler, but the subworkflow may be useful if you want to run `callvariants` on GPU.

# Conda is not supported at the moment

The [bioconda](https://bioconda.github.io/recipes/deepvariant/README.html) recipe is not fully working as expected.

See https://github.com/bioconda/bioconda-recipes/issues/30310 and https://github.com/nf-core/modules/issues/1754 for more information.

Hence, we are using the docker container provided by the authors of the tool:

- [google/deepvariant](https://hub.docker.com/r/google/deepvariant)

This image is mirrored on the [nf-core quay.io](https://quay.io/repository/nf-core/deepvariant) for convenience.

# DeepVariant subworkflow

You can use the subworkflow `nf-core/deepvariant`, which integrates the three
processes to perform variant calling with common file formats.

These module subcommands incorporate the individual steps of the DeepVariant pipeline:

    * makeexamples: Converts the input alignment file to a tfrecord format suitable for the deep learning model
    * callvariants: Call variants based on input tfrecords. The output is also in
    tfrecord format, and needs postprocessing to convert it to vcf.
    * postprocessvariants: Convert variant calls from callvariants to VCF, and
    also create GVCF files based on genomic information from makeexamples.

# Recommended parameters

## makeexamples

This process imports the data used for calling, and thus decides what information is available to the
deep neural network. It's important to use the correct settings for the model you want to use for each step. The script [`run_deepvariant.py`](https://github.com/google/deepvariant/blob/r1.8/scripts/run_deepvariant.py) does this automatically. To figure out the flags needed for each step you can run `run_deepvariant.py` while adding `dry_run=true`, to print out the command used for each step, as described [here](https://github.com/google/deepvariant/blob/r1.8/docs/deepvariant-pacbio-model-case-study.md).

## callvariants

It is mandatory to specify a model type. The models are available on the container filesystem in
`/opt/models` - specify the one you want with the `--checkpoint` argument.

```
withName: "DEEPVARIANT_CALLVARIANTS" {
    ext.args = '--checkpoint "/opt/models/wgs'
}
```

The channels specified in the `makeexamples` process must match the model used for calling.
